When you perform regression analysis using software you'll find something different than a scatterplot
with a regression line.
The graph is a visual representation.
And what we really want is to have the equation of the model and a measure of its significance and explanatory
power.
This is the reason the software provides a couple of tables instead of a graph.
In this lesson we will learn how to read and understand these tables typically we will have three main
tables a model summary and a nova table and a table with coefficients.
Here's what we have in Excel.
These tables contain all kinds of information.
So let me quickly clear it up.
We want to see only information that is important and relevant.
All right.
First we have the model summary.
It will contain the R-squared the sample size and the standard error of the estimate.
We already know what the R squared is.
The standard error of the estimate similarily to the standard errors we have seen so far is a correction
of the standard deviation that takes into account the sample size.
The formula is square root of SSD divided by and minus 2.
We will not dig deeper into this topic but as we had with inferential statistics the bigger the sample
size the lower the standard error and the better the model.
The second table is a nova and Nova is an abbreviation of analysis of variance and is a collection of
statistical models used for comparing means in the context of regressions.
The Nova table summarizes the variance we've talked about so far as s t ss are an SSD in the Nova table.
You will also find the statistic which we will discuss in a separate lesson.
The third table is the coefficients table.
If you are new to regression analysis you wouldn't know.
But this is the heart of the regression.
So get excited.
The first row describes the intercept while the second row the independent variable OK.
Now let's go column by column.
The first one is about the coefficients we can see the coefficient of the intercept is zero point 4
8 0 or 3 which means be 0 is zero point 4 8 0 3.
Looking below we notice the other coefficient is zero point 0 0 1 5.
This is our b one.
These are the only two numbers we need to define the regression equation Y had equals zero point 4 8
0 3 plus 0.00 1 5 times x that is also the correct way to get the regression equation.
Next we have the standard errors of each estimate which we will need in a second.
The two values are a t statistic and it's P-value.
If you have paid close attention to the course you will know there is a hypothesis involved here.
The null hypothesis of this test is beta equals zero.
In other words is the coefficient equal to zero.
If a coefficient is zero for the intercept be 0 that is then the line crosses the y axes at the origin.
If beta 1 is zero then 0 times X will always be NULL for any x.
So this variable will not be considered for the model.
Let's paraphrase the null hypothesis.
Essentially it means is this variable useful.
Does it help us explain the variability we have in this case.
The answer is contained in the p value column as we have discussed earlier in this course.
We are longing for those three zeros but it is up to the researcher to choose the significance level
in our example the S.A.T. score is significant in determining college GPA.
What you may notice is that the int. p value is not zero.
Let's think about this.
Does it matter that much.
Even if the p value is large the intercept is insignificant.
So the test is about do we have enough statistical evidence that the intercept differs from 0.
Usually this is not essential as it is the x's we are interested in all right starting from our next
lesson.
We will get into more serious regression analysis by exploring multivariate regressions.